Erika Romero: Dominique, are you
Dominique Pozo: I'm doing well. Can you hear me.
Erika Romero: Yes, ma'am. I can, can you hear me.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, good. Yeah, I can hear you.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, good day. How's it going,
Erika Romero: I'm doing good. Doing good thing kind of tired, but that's just because my granddaughter. Don't let me sleep ever so
Erika Romero: She's always she's always on the go. Even when she's asleep. She's on the ghost.
Erika Romero: But otherwise I'm doing good. Daniel can
Create
Dominique Pozo: Well, what would you like to work on. We've got our individual time. Now we got through all the assessments and intakes and everything. So what would be some some main focuses that you'd like to work on.
Erika Romero: Oh, you know, I kind of wanted to talk to you about yesterday's session.
Erika Romero: Because I really got to thinking a lot about, um, I believe was
Erika Romero: What was her Phyllis, I believe I was talking to fill us right before we all disconnected. Well, that's, that's what I was talking to you right. Do you remember
Dominique Pozo: WELL, PHYLLIS lost. She, she's the one who kind of started, I think you were talking to Leticia what
Erika Romero: Leticia. Okay. Yeah. So yeah.
Erika Romero: I'll get everybody's names.
Erika Romero: Yeah, but
Erika Romero: I so I kind of wanted to talk to you about that because I really was thinking a lot about that overnight and let me see if I can just split screen. Hold on. There we go. I was tucked away off in the corner. So I wouldn't be able to see him know that I was that you could see me.
Dominique Pozo: But anyway, um,
Erika Romero: So,
Erika Romero: I got to thinking about her a lot. Let us know because her situation is a lot like and not in some a lot like mine in some ways.
Erika Romero: As far as
Erika Romero: You know Lawson and and giving of yourself, you know, to the point where you know you you give so much of yourself and
Erika Romero: And you still end up losing what you you know what you fought so hard for.
Erika Romero: And it really is. And so I sat, but I sat last night and I was thinking a lot about it because you know I told you I have a daughter.
Erika Romero: Daughter, I have custody of her of her one of her daughters. So I have three other granddaughters
Dominique Pozo: She has four children.
Erika Romero: She has or
Wow.
Erika Romero: The first two were taken by this date. So my daughter and I have a very tumultuous relationship.
Erika Romero: We I'm
Erika Romero: When my daughters getting high because she's a an addict badly when she's getting high. She doesn't think straight and logic doesn't come out of my daughter's bring
Yeah.
Erika Romero: So I've my two oldest granddaughters I ended up losing because of her and, you know, I've tried so hard. Over the years, and she's 25 now. And over the years, I've tried really hard to
Erika Romero: To be there for her and and to take care of her. And, um, and to help her get sober.
Erika Romero: And my husband and I actually had her second daughter, which she ended up
Erika Romero: Having the state takeaway from us.
Erika Romero: Um,
Erika Romero: Yeah, it was very. It was a very devastating thing she was only three months old, and I haven't seen her since.
Dominique Pozo: And how long ago I saw
I saw her.
Erika Romero: I'm let me let me backtrack. I did see her, but through the state. I was only allowed to see her.
Erika Romero: Once a month. And so I
Erika Romero: For the and i think
Erika Romero: Until she was about nine or 10 months old, and then they adopted her out. And so once the adoption was final
Erika Romero: I was no longer allowed to see her and
Erika Romero: My daughter had her taken away from us, because she started getting high again. And so she started causing a lot of problems for me.
Erika Romero: And the same thing with my oldest granddaughter my haven't seen her since she was a baby and
Erika Romero: She daughter, cut, cut me out of her life of my granddaughter's life.
Erika Romero: Whenever it didn't suit her you know she
Erika Romero: He uses her kids against me and and that's why we have this that we actually have custody of her
Dominique Pozo: Because
Erika Romero: We weren't willing to go through that again, you know, it was very emotionally devastating for my husband and I to go through that with let's alanna
Um,
Erika Romero: So, you know, I got to really thinking about it and it really
Erika Romero: It really touched me a lot.
Erika Romero: Take her
Erika Romero: Think that she could give
Erika Romero: And give and give and that it would have made a difference in her son and her father's life because
Dominique Pozo: You know,
Erika Romero: We've given and given and given so much. I mean, even a financial Thanksgiving. I haven't spoken to her since Thanksgiving, and I don't plan on it.
Erika Romero: Because she's, she's devastating to me.
Erika Romero: Is that devastating TO ME, SHE SHE SHOULD DO WHATEVER SHE CAN TO TO DESTROY, DESTROY me to destroy my life and to take away what's what's important, what's valuable to me and which is my family and I have very little of it.
Erika Romero: And so we got to really thinking about her last night and
Erika Romero: It brought up a lot of that for me.
Erika Romero: I realized that
Erika Romero: You know there's there. There isn't much that you can do.
Erika Romero: For an addict, unless they want to do for themselves and they've learned because like I said yesterday, you know, we've taken in a lot of addicts and we've gotten them.
Erika Romero: Some of them we've we've helped get sober and some of them we have it, you know, some of them. We haven't been successful with
Erika Romero: But that's a choice that they've that they've made. You know, we provide in every opportunity for them evenness going as far as supporting every aspect of their lives, you know,
Erika Romero: All we ask is for them to work on their sobriety, you know, and
Erika Romero: And so it was it brought up a lot for me last night.
Dominique Pozo: A lot though. So I'm I just want to get clear I I definitely am understanding that it resurrected a lot in your own personal story and then
Dominique Pozo: Regarding Leticia what what got brought up related to her because I'm hearing that it really start a lot up for you around your story. But I'm wondering when you say you know you
Erika Romero: Know I just fell for her because she just
Erika Romero: She was just so broken about that and and it took me a long time to stop being broken to, you know, to, to accept the fact that
Erika Romero: That there wasn't anything I could do to change that anymore. You know what I mean that I had put in everything that I could for for my daughter.
Erika Romero: And it just affected me to see her.
Erika Romero: Feel like she could just
Erika Romero: knew she could have given everything of herself, including her own
Erika Romero: Her own life. You know what I mean, for her brother, you know, that maybe she would have maybe she wouldn't have but
Erika Romero: In her mind. She, you know, that's how far she feels like she could have gone and you know I've done the same thing. You know, I put myself out on the line. So many times for my daughter.
Erika Romero: So many times
Erika Romero: Yeah, my emotions and my
Erika Romero: Friends are you know even wait for my sanity. I put it on the line for email and but she had another another daughter.
Dominique Pozo: Hmm.
Erika Romero: Last year, and so
Erika Romero: She we brought her up here again brought her to her house again.
Erika Romero: And
Erika Romero: She was in a in a rehab program and she just she didn't want to be there anymore because they weren't able to to work with her after she had the baby.
Erika Romero: And the capacity that she needed them to you because
Erika Romero: They did it. They do accept women who are pregnant there and that have babies, but they don't really have a program set up to accommodate a mother and their newborn baby you know they
Erika Romero: expect him to work and do the same follow the same program after even after they've had a brand new baby. Oh, my daughter was breastfeeding and having they wanted her to breastfeed in group and all that other stuff that were there was men there.
Erika Romero: And she didn't feel comfortable so you know just just she was very unhappy there. And so we brought her backup. When the baby was a newborn and it really took me a while to get connected with that baby because she had
Erika Romero: Done so much, you know, and I already knew that she was going to do it again. You know, and so it took me a while to become attached to that baby to
Erika Romero: Which was hard for me because I didn't
Erika Romero: Want to be like that, you know, because it's my granddaughter, but the one, behold, she did it to me again. And, you know, no I'm not allowed to see my granddaughter again and she's trying to take this one away from me, you know,
Erika Romero: She, she called see why a fee on top. Protective Services on me. Um, she caused a big old thing for Thanksgiving.
Erika Romero: And caused a big uproar here at my house and I'm mainly it was because I couldn't take her to Walmart and that's what it stirred all that up but it again. I think she was getting high. So
Erika Romero: You know, rational side of her
Erika Romero: And the only way that she knows to get even with me is through the kids you know and and so, you know, here I am again without another granddaughter. And so I kind of just felt so it felt so heavy in my heart for for Leticia
Erika Romero: Because I know what I've gone through what I what I
Erika Romero: What I've given and what I've lost in
Erika Romero: For any addict and somebody that you love somebody that you know the only
Erika Romero: That's the other another ru you know
Erika Romero: It just, it just brought up a lot for me yesterday.
Dominique Pozo: Huh, yeah, I really see that and I see the heartbreak that it brought up of, you know, opening and reopening and allowing yourself to get attached and then have kind of, you know, the line cut
Erika Romero: Yeah.
Erika Romero: So I don't know, I just I just felt so bad for her. It really just my heart just really went to her.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I'm gonna reflect because I actually was thinking about you all after group, especially the interaction between YouTube and I'm curious what how do you think she responded to what you were sharing and your questions to her, how, how do you think that landed for her.
I think
Erika Romero: I can't, I don't know how she took it i don't i don't know how she felt about it. I don't know her well enough. I just to make an assumption.
Erika Romero: I'm. All I know is that, um, what I really wanted to get across to her was that you can only give so much, you know, to people before it's in the balls in their court you know you you can't
Erika Romero: You can't expect to, you know, expire your own life to
Dominique Pozo: Somebody's
Erika Romero: Body, you know, even if you love them that much. You know, I understand what she said about that being her soulmate.
Erika Romero: You know, my daughter, my daughter is actually the only child that I raised I have for myself, you know, and when I was an attic. The first time I lost my two oldest boys.
Erika Romero: And my daughter's twin brother. He grew up with his aunt and uncle. So my daughter's. The only one that I that I raised and so it was
Erika Romero: I understood that, you know, my daughter and I have a very good relationship when she's in a good frame of mind.
You know,
Dominique Pozo: So I'm going to reflect something because what I picked up on was Leticia getting a bit defensive
Erika Romero: That's what I picked up on.
Dominique Pozo: And I, I totally validate everything you're saying that you experienced and like you just said you don't really know her. And so I'm and I'm not. I didn't want to do it in group because I didn't want to
Dominique Pozo: You know, shame, shame you or your expression, but I want agreement, which I'm going to go over in the group meeting next week is that we don't give other group members advice because I watched you know i i watched
Dominique Pozo: You were sharing very genuinely your experience and I saw Leticia get defensive
Erika Romero: Because
Dominique Pozo: She has her own ideas, they may they may not
Dominique Pozo: You may not agree with them, you know, and you may think you may want to help her and save her from going through the hardship that you have
Dominique Pozo: But I just watched that. So the request. I'm going to make in group is that everybody just speak from their own experience unless someone asks, hey, can someone give me some feedback. I'm struggling here because I watched. I watched it happen and I thought about you too, and
Dominique Pozo: And that may be true for Leticia until her last breath that she would still give everything you know
Erika Romero: When I wasn't trying to give her advice that was by no means all I wanted to know was all I was asking her was, if
Erika Romero: If, if she's if she felt that if she, you know, no matter how much she gave would, would it have made a difference. That's all I wanted to know. I wasn't trying to give her advice. By no means. I was trying to express to her what I had gone through in my life.
Erika Romero: Yeah, you know, and what I've been through with other other people. And so, by no means was I was trying to give her advice at all and I
Erika Romero: Wasn't even expecting that it would would have come off that way. All I was trying to do is trying to ask her what you know if she thought that it would it would have made a difference, you know,
Erika Romero: And
Erika Romero: If she would have gone that extreme really to and and to let her know that, you know, I've been there. And for me, you know, for me personally.
Erika Romero: I've had to learn how to back off and that allow people to do their own thing.
Erika Romero: So, by no means was like I said, trying to give her advice I'm not in any call to give anybody advice, you know, because I have my own struggles I have my own thoughts and my own situations that I go through so
Erika Romero: Really, all I was trying to do is just ask her, because it struck me it just when she said that it just
Erika Romero: It just struck me really hard year
Dominique Pozo: I know I
Erika Romero: I was trying to figure out how to turn out or not do it. Did she think that it and i and i will apologize to her if she you know
Erika Romero: If that if I offended her I that by no means that I need to a vendor or a lead her any firm that device. Oh, and what I wanted to know was that, you know, what did she think that does she feel that if she went to that extreme is would wouldn't have made a difference.
Dominique Pozo: I think it would be really worth checking it out. I haven't talked to her. I don't know, I, the only thing I picked up on. And I
Dominique Pozo: I really believe that you didn't do this with the intention of it yet. The way that it came through it. What I perceived was that part of her maybe heard. Oh, I, I'm doing this wrong, or I did it wrong.
Dominique Pozo: You know, so that's
Dominique Pozo: That's just what I believe and it'd be I think it would be worth checking out. And this
Dominique Pozo: Is so I think this is great, you know, this is the power of group dynamics is
Dominique Pozo: You know, somebody share something it touches and light something up in other group members and then they respond and sometimes the tensions build and it's good because in the group setting. I know that the doctor and I are going to do our best to keep it.
Dominique Pozo: Contained having a rupture in a group or tension and then being able to talk through it. It is the most healing, so I
Dominique Pozo: I really encourage you to check it out. We, we don't know. I don't know how Leticia had the rest. You know how the rest of her night when what she thought about, but I am hearing that it really impacted you
Erika Romero: Yeah it and it did. Yeah.
Erika Romero: I just thought for her. I just
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm.
Erika Romero: I really did. I just thought for I'm like I said I wasn't by no means trying to give her advice. I just wanted to know if she really felt within her art.
Erika Romero: Yeah, you know that if she had
Erika Romero: In there and I given everything
Erika Romero: I have. I've got it you know almost that extreme and
Erika Romero: I almost lost myself with a loss when they came in, he asked my granddaughter out
Erika Romero: I could could manage anymore because she had taken
Erika Romero: It felt like very hard out of my chest, you know,
Erika Romero: I just wanted to know somebody else's perspective, it's, it, it, honestly, I would have hated it, because I don't, I don't know what to give anymore. I don't know.
Erika Romero: You know, I don't know what to do anymore. I know that I'm at that point, my life where I just wrote my hands that I can't do it anymore for my own
Erika Romero: For my my own stability. I couldn't do it anymore, you know,
Dominique Pozo: See this kind of sharing. I think this
Dominique Pozo: Would would keep a dialogue going because I'm really hearing your struggle. I'm hearing that you want to have hope you're at a loss of how how
Dominique Pozo: How to love someone that is addicted. That's what I hear that that you know you're at a loss of how to do that and not not have your own heartbreak in the process.
Erika Romero: I just my heart broke for her.
Erika Romero: Yeah, I just, you know, I felt so bad for her because I heard that I heard that same her
Dominique Pozo: In
Erika Romero: Her in her voice. And when she said that
Erika Romero: I felt it. I felt
Erika Romero: What she was feeling I felt what she's been through.
Erika Romero: Because even though my daughter's not dead.
Erika Romero: She's still here on this earth it's pushed me to the extreme, where I can't see it in
Erika Romero: You know she she has to be, you know,
Erika Romero: That
Erika Romero: That separation between her and I that that kills me.
Erika Romero: She is my daughter.
Erika Romero: But I just
Erika Romero: I don't know, I just thought for her so bad.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, and I'm really witnessing how much grief. It stirred it has stirred up for you around the losses from your granddaughters to the connection with your daughter and the capacity to just give and to keep it. I mean that's that's a huge loss to, you know, to have to hold back.
Dominique Pozo: You know of a person's genuine desire to be generous.
Erika Romero: I'm her mother and I just, I've just always thought that that was my responsibility to take care of her, you know, try to make her the best person that she can be and just let me down over and over. And it's not that she's led me down. She's
Erika Romero: She's hurt me so much.
Erika Romero: You know, at all and
Erika Romero: Would you just. Will you excuse me for just a second. I'm just gonna grab some tissue. Oh.
Dominique Pozo: Sure, sure.
Erika Romero: I'm sorry about that.
Erika Romero: So yeah, I just, I will
Erika Romero: I'll apologize didn't by no means mean to, I don't have any place to give anybody advice about anything. I'm just here just to
Erika Romero: Learn just like everybody else. You know, I just wanted her perspective on it. Will you know and to let her know or I had been
Erika Romero: Where I've been in and what I've done in, you know, and how much I've given in it hasn't just been to my daughter I raised my niece also and Rishi to as an addict, you know, and she she puts me through all kinds of crap to and
Erika Romero: You know,
Erika Romero: Like I said, I just wanted somebody else's perspective from, you know, because you kind of feel
Erika Romero: When, when that kind of because my husband's gone through with me, but I think because he's a man you know he handles it differently. And maybe it's because there might blood that I
Erika Romero: Feel you know that extra connection to
Erika Romero: I don't know, but I know that I feel
Erika Romero: Very much more deeply about it that he does, you know,
Erika Romero: I know that it did hurt him. When my granddaughter was taken from us. So, um, but, I mean, as far as struggling with all the other stuff. But you know, that's something that I enjoy
Erika Romero: Very much in my life that I that I've gone through
Erika Romero: That
Erika Romero: affects me like this because I've learned how to get through a lot of stuff, but
Erika Romero: With my daughter, it's more recent. And so these are kind of things that I really haven't had an opportunity to kind of tackle yet. You know what I mean.
Erika Romero: And
Erika Romero: I've learned certain things. But I mean, as a mom as a woman as a human being.
Erika Romero: I feel feel differently about it. You know what I mean with this this situation. And so I kind of just like I said, I just wanted to know, because I understand what she said that her father was herself, because my daughter is the love of my life, you know, she's
Erika Romero: She is she's my daughter and
Erika Romero: And so I understood that when she said that. Yeah.
Erika Romero: And so I kind of just wanted somebody else's
Erika Romero: You know,
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I mean, I'm really, I'm really hearing the desire for that, that you have for connection around to this and this topic and
Dominique Pozo: Just, you know, exploring it with someone, I don't even know if an apology is necessary. I think just checking it out and seeing, you know, how was that for you. You know, I imagine that if you started
Dominique Pozo: Sharing
Dominique Pozo: You know, you could share that a lot came up for you and and this is a very important topic to bring into group to, you know, because I think
Dominique Pozo: What it's touching on is the tendency to care. Take the codependent dynamics between family members. And this is something that, you know, most everyone who has either dealt with addiction or has someone who's addicted in their life deals with
Erika Romero: Yeah, yeah. I suppose you're right.
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: It's very real and I was, I was very touched by the group, you know, it went. It went really deep really quick with a lot of new group members, you know, that didn't know each other, but we're willing to share pretty deeply. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Well, what it sounds like so much got started, how have you been doing any sort of self care ways to be gentle with yourself.
Erika Romero: I just read
Erika Romero: Just trying to breathe. And you know what, take one day at a time and get some days it's just one minute at a time that's best I can do. You know, because
Erika Romero: Even though I haven't spoken to her since.
Erika Romero: Since November.
Erika Romero: You know, it's still, it still affects me it does hurt me, you know, and then you know she she has it not once
Erika Romero: I'm asked to see her daughter.
Erika Romero: You know, and
Erika Romero: I don't know, even if right now if for me, I would even allow that.
Erika Romero: Because she stirs up so much
Erika Romero: But, you know, just
Erika Romero: Just to put forth that effort, you know,
Erika Romero: And
Erika Romero: You know my granddaughter.
Erika Romero: My husband and I are the only ones that she knows you know we've had her sensitive issues board so
Erika Romero: You know, my daughter being here, she was here for about six months as last time.
Erika Romero: And, um,
Erika Romero: You know, my, my granddaughter got to know her a little bit and
Erika Romero: I mean, it did it, she doesn't really understand what
Erika Romero: A mom is, you know, except for what she sees on on TV or on her videos you know I am her mom, you know, she doesn't call me mom but
Erika Romero: In every aspect of the game. I am her mom, you know, my husband is her dad. And even though she she knows us as not on grandpa's
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Erika Romero: We are in every aspect, her, her parents and so it didn't really affect her when my daughter left
Erika Romero: Oh, did I didn't factor at all. She never showed a single tier. She didn't ask for her. She did you know
Erika Romero: But my daughter. On the other hand,
Erika Romero: She has an S for her either
Erika Romero: My daughter has enough for her for my granddaughter. She hasn't
Erika Romero: She hasn't made put forth any effort to be a part of her life, or even allow my husband and I to be a part of the baby's life you know
Dominique Pozo: Well, there was absolutely no
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, it sounds to me that there was absolutely no bonding. I mean, if the if the baby was taken away right after birth. There was no chance for them to bond at all.
Erika Romero: Mm hmm.
Erika Romero: When
Erika Romero: My daughters never put forth any effort to bond with her, even when she was here, staying with us. She, she didn't bond with the baby very much at all, or my grant my granddaughter. So, you know, there's, there isn't a love lost between the two of them, but
Erika Romero: You know, with my daughter. You would think that
Erika Romero: Having her and her daughter a part of her life for that six months if she was here that
Erika Romero: That would have touched something in her and maybe my daughter just doesn't have that in in her heart. You know what I mean, I don't know. I don't know where the short circuit is in her but
Erika Romero: You know having that opportunity. We allowed her to have that opportunity to be a part of her daughter's life.
Erika Romero: That it was kind of like
Erika Romero: Gone with the Wind, you know, and soon as she left, so did every, every effort to be a part of a Leah's life went out the door with her, you know,
Erika Romero: So,
Erika Romero: I feel like the only the only reason why she had anything to do with her daughter at all. It's only because we we put that in place. You know what I mean, she hasn't done anything since she's left here to
Erika Romero: To see her daughter to talk to her daughter to nothing, not check up on her daughter. Nothing, nothing at all, at all.
Erika Romero: So, you know, for me, I just, I just think that there's some sort of a short in my daughter. You know where she
Erika Romero: There's no connection to her emotional side. I don't know. Maybe it's the drugs, you know that that put
Dominique Pozo: Her for sure. Yeah.
Erika Romero: You know, and for her. It's easier to just use drugs than can then to deal with any sort of emotions, but I know when I lost my two oldest son.
Erika Romero: That was the most devastating thing that I couldn't have ever gone through because they were my life. I didn't know how to eat without them. So when I lost them my immediate thought was, I need to figure out what I gotta do to get them back, you know,
Erika Romero: My daughter just
Erika Romero: Think that same way. You know, she had the opportunity to get her oldest daughter back
Erika Romero: On was very close to getting her back, and then she went back on drugs.
Erika Romero: And
Erika Romero: And lost that
Erika Romero: They, they took away her parental rights and then a year later, she had a Lada and
Erika Romero: We were going to take her but we didn't have any custody papers in place. So she started a bunch of crap for us and then come on top. Protective Services and had her yanked from us.
Erika Romero: And they told us really there wasn't anything that we could do, because we didn't have any any any custody papers in place.
Erika Romero: And because she still had custody of the baby and she could do and say whatever she wanted
Erika Romero: And so we lost her
Erika Romero: But there's, you know, there is, there's some sort of a block for my daughter that doesn't allow her to connect to connect people's feelings. You know what I mean, or to think about how did she she hurts people, you know, and what she takes away from them.
Dominique Pozo: I'm curious how how young and I don't want to make this session about your daughter, because it's really more about you, although just to help understand what may be going on for her how young she when she started to use substances.
Erika Romero: She was
Erika Romero: Maybe about
Dominique Pozo: Because she kept running away from a little bit
Erika Romero: And so you know that she got involved with, you know, the wrong type people and
Erika Romero: So, yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Well,
Erika Romero: The one thing that
Dominique Pozo: 15 or 16 what's coming to my mind is that when anyone starts to use substances heavily and they become addicted at a certain age, and it goes on through their 20s, 30s.
Dominique Pozo: Their emotional intelligence, it stops at that age. So, you know, this capacity to have empathy and start, you know, being able to who
Dominique Pozo: Self, you know, teenagers are so self centered. I mean everything's about them. And so when I think about okay, when did
Dominique Pozo: Did she start using and why
Dominique Pozo: Does she not have this part of her brain fully developed yet. It's because those things get stunted. So it helps me to understand a little bit. Hopefully. Maybe. It helps you to understand a bit too that
Dominique Pozo: You know her brain got stunted at 1516 years old, where the capacity for for empathy isn't fully developed yet so until she stops using drugs, if she ever does and really is on the road to recovery and starts to develop these
Dominique Pozo: Skills, she's not going to have them you know it's sad and and everyone has their own character structure and some people are more they have more of an inclination towards
Dominique Pozo: And, you know, maybe. So these are some of the things that I'm just wondering, but I don't know your daughter. I don't you know I don't know I do.
Erika Romero: Very well and not
Erika Romero: That does give me some sort of, you know, enlightenment as to what what my, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Erika Romero: Well, I might get her to
Erika Romero: To be this way. You know, because it it is
Erika Romero: Because I'm stumped. You know, I don't understand. And so
Erika Romero: You know, and that's that's what I was trying to figure out yesterday was that, you know,
Erika Romero: If, if you just keep giving and giving and giving it What point is
Erika Romero: Is that a, you know, where do you stop this.
Dominique Pozo: Is what I'm trying to that it doesn't serve someone at a certain point to keep giving because it's enabling them to keep up the behavior and and they don't
Dominique Pozo: Even get the opportunity to make a change, because why would they, you know, if someone keeps giving them the things that they're not doing on their own. Why would they stop.
Dominique Pozo: You know, so I think it's actually, it really does. People that are dealing with addiction, a disservice to keep showing up and helping them because it's not empowering them to do it themselves.
Erika Romero: Yeah.
I mean,
Dominique Pozo: Oh,
Erika Romero: That's where I
Erika Romero: Kind of
Erika Romero: I finally had to realize that myself because I just, I couldn't. You know, for my own mental stability. I just couldn't keep giving anymore, you know, and I've taken, taken your in and it's been just so devastating for me.
Erika Romero: You know, at every turn, it's been
Erika Romero: really devastating for me so
Dominique Pozo: And I don't want to skip over the grief of it. You know, I don't have children. I haven't dealt with a child who's been addicted. So I can't come from a place of saying, Oh my gosh, I, I really relate to how hard this is so I just want to acknowledge to that.
Dominique Pozo: It must be them, you know, one of the deepest pains to have to just step back from one's child. Yeah.
Erika Romero: It hasn't been easy, but um
Erika Romero: I have
Erika Romero: I've done everything that I can know, and she's a grown up now, you know,
Erika Romero: For now, she has she has a baby. And so, you know, hopefully that that grounds her at some point, you know,
Erika Romero: And maybe at some point, she'll
Erika Romero: She'll realize what she's done
Dominique Pozo: It's gonna be devastating to it's not going to be easy.
Erika Romero: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And maybe, who knows, you know, maybe at that point if she really chooses recovery. You all may connect. Again, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Who knows.
Erika Romero: Yeah, baby.
Dominique Pozo: I think what I'm, I just want to acknowledge how much grief is in the room right now. You know, it's
Dominique Pozo: It's a lot
Dominique Pozo: And it's not only yours, it's hers. I mean, I can even feel into deep down when she lets herself feel how painful it must be
Dominique Pozo: And I wonder if that's just why she keeps using because to have four children have to be taken away and given for adoption and then one is, you know, she can't see or she can. But, you know, she's not saying because
Dominique Pozo: What's up,
Erika Romero: Is that she chooses not to and I
Won't
Erika Romero: I won't subject the baby to her addiction. I won't you know she deserves a better life. She's been
Erika Romero: She was subjected to my daughter's addiction, the entire time. My daughter was pregnant with her.
Erika Romero: And so you know that that's enough for her.
Erika Romero: That's enough. You know, at some point, I gotta put put my foot down and, you know, draw a line right you know it's for me. It's important that she doesn't. She doesn't get subjected to that they do more and
Erika Romero: And I will let my daughter take her for me. There's no way
Erika Romero: I made sure I made sure that was in place before she was even born. That was hurt. Hurt devastate me the same way that she did with with the second second little girl.
Erika Romero: Yeah, it is, it is very hard for me. I
Erika Romero: Know, I just don't know how to how to deal with it. Sometimes
Dominique Pozo: Well, I
Erika Romero: Know it no matter how how angry I get with her. It's still painful to have to hear that, you know, to know that I have to be this way because I'm not this way.
Dominique Pozo: Right, right.
Erika Romero: I've always tried to beat her and and and love her through everything.
Erika Romero: She's been through, you know, I have gotten up in the middle of the night, God rescued her from the streets and
Dominique Pozo: You know,
Erika Romero: Where she's called me and told me that she's been beat up and
Erika Romero: Everything drop everything to go get her. You know, bring her home, but
Erika Romero: Generally, the only time I hear from her after she's you know she's gone out is that when she's pregnant.
Erika Romero: And I know that's what
Erika Romero: And I know that's that's the reason why she's called me, you know, is because she's pregnant.
Erika Romero: You know,
Erika Romero: I've tried so much and it's just been so hard.
Erika Romero: So like I said, I just wanted to know how how somebody else felt about that because
Dominique Pozo: I have a question for you.
Dominique Pozo: What would love say to you, the big love whatever that voice of big love
Dominique Pozo: You know, whatever. You can imagine it. What would love say to you, how do you do you know if you asked that question.
Erika Romero: I don't know.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Do you have some crayons or markers around. I know you have a little girl. Do you have any art supplies around. Yeah. Yeah. Would you be willing to do a little art.
Dominique Pozo: Sure. So I'm I'm also a trained art therapist. In addition to, you know, doing the counseling.
Dominique Pozo: Work and I, when we make art. It comes from a different part of the brain, the part that same I don't know is the rational, logical problem solving part of the brain and art comes from a different part that you know sometimes has responses and that we can't even think up logically
Dominique Pozo: Right, so
Dominique Pozo: You could get a paper and something crayons markers watercolors, whatever you feel comfortable using
Erika Romero: Right now.
Yeah.
Erika Romero: Okay, can you give me just a minute.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Erika Romero: Just a second open up the box.
Great.
Dominique Pozo: So without thinking. Don't even I'm going to invite you to not even think but just
Dominique Pozo: Allow love to give you a message if you tap into whatever big love could look like. And it's giving you a message right now, what would it look like maybe some words come through anything sometimes symbols just colors.
Dominique Pozo: It doesn't need to make
Erika Romero: Sense.
Erika Romero: What we'll look at it.
Dominique Pozo: Together and do what we can to make sense of it. But as you're making it. Don't even worry about what you're making just let whatever wants to come through. Come through.
Erika Romero: Okay, I think I got a few things.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, let's see, we are you willing to share with me and show me.
Erika Romero: Sure.
Erika Romero: Let's see, can you see it, I
Erika Romero: See. Okay, so I have
Erika Romero: A strong arm here.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Erika Romero: piece of candy.
Erika Romero: Okay, sweet.
Erika Romero: It would be strong.
Erika Romero: Huh, it would be warm like this.
Dominique Pozo: Free
Dominique Pozo: No strong sweet warm and free
Dominique Pozo: And what comes up, it looks like or it sounds like I didn't see you. But it sounds like some emotion came up when you were sharing what what was that
Erika Romero: I think more than anything the freedom of like
Erika Romero: Feel free and love your daughter be
Dominique Pozo: The sound is a little difficult. I don't know what happened there, difficult to hear you.
Dominique Pozo: It's a little it's a little strange. Mmm hmm. I
Dominique Pozo: Don't know what happened.
Dominique Pozo: Can you say something
Dominique Pozo: Oh, that's better, that's better.
Dominique Pozo: Now, I hear you. Yep.
Dominique Pozo: What were you starting to say
Erika Romero: I think like the
Erika Romero: Freedom. You know, like
Erika Romero: Freedom and love for me it's always been hard even in my marriage today.
Erika Romero: I've been married three times my third marriage and
Erika Romero: So I'm
Erika Romero: Always feel like there's a restriction. Like there's
Erika Romero: Like there's
Erika Romero: Like there's a bondage on me that they can't break like that. I don't, I don't even know how to do find out
Erika Romero: Where to clean it. I just
Erika Romero: Like it's an everyday thing, it just something that you just kind of go through every day you live your life the way that you live it, you do the things that you do and
Erika Romero: But I always feel like there's
Erika Romero: Like there's something missing there and there's always been something missing. And I don't know. I don't know what it is. I don't know.
Erika Romero: How to
Erika Romero: How to pinpoint it like there's a
Erika Romero: I really don't even understand it myself. I don't know how to explain it.
Erika Romero: I think he does kind of get caught up in in
Erika Romero: Do you know what do you
Erika Romero: When you first have a
Erika Romero: Brand new love
Erika Romero: And you everything feels free about it, you know, you're, you're just on cloud nine
Erika Romero: Um, you know that for me. I've been
Erika Romero: I don't know how how to do that. You know, I don't guess I have that euphoric feeling, but there's something that that doesn't give me that freedom to
Erika Romero: To feel like I can be me or to feel the way that I do or or the way that I should. There's like a bondage there somewhere.
Erika Romero: I can really think that that probably stems back through my childhood and with my first husband and all that. But, um,
Erika Romero: There's something that it just doesn't allow me to have that freedom.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I'm wondering, two things done that for me, when you say this one is the bondage. I'm very curious. And I think it's something we can keep exploring over time. But the second thing that that I think would be useful to
Dominique Pozo: To address today is when you say I you know I don't
Dominique Pozo: What I heard was, you know, you can't just be you. What would that look like what would be new look like completely
Erika Romero: I don't know.
Erika Romero: I don't know because there's to me. There's always an expectation of myself to do and feel and think and be
Erika Romero: The strong one. You know what I mean. And to to
Erika Romero: To just go about my day. The way that I go through go about my day, you know, and
Erika Romero: And so I really don't know what that would be like, you know,
Erika Romero: I guess you just, I just have gotten used to being
Erika Romero: In the routine that I mean that's carried over from relationship to relationship, you know, it's always been the same.
Erika Romero: Where I just
Erika Romero: Do my duties and responsibilities and so
Dominique Pozo: I hear I'm hearing that somehow you you created a belief about the role you need to fulfill when you're in relationship and you've carried that from one relationship to the next and you continue kind of fulfilling this role and that there's more
Erika Romero: Yeah.
Erika Romero: Yeah, yeah. So this is something I'm gonna let you know my
Erika Romero: my granddaughter's to my kids two husbands, you know that it's always a duty and I fulfill my duties to the best of my ability, you know,
But
Erika Romero: I always feel like there's something missing for me. You know what I mean, like,
Erika Romero: There's some days I just, I feel like I just need to scream.
Erika Romero: Or I get anxiety, a lot, you know, because
Erika Romero: There's something that I'm trying to grasp on to that I'm trying to feel that I've tried to experience that I know that it's missing.
Erika Romero: It is, I don't even know.
Erika Romero: How to address it. I don't even know what the hell it is. You know,
Dominique Pozo: Everything you're saying makes very much sense to me. I'm just going to say the, the, what I'm hearing is that there's some expression that to happen. And you're not clear of what it is yet, but you're feeling that you're feeling the call for this expression.
Erika Romero: It's just an expression, but it
Erika Romero: Gets
Erika Romero: There's some there's a loss there and I don't know what it is. I don't know where to find it. I don't know.
Erika Romero: I don't know.
Erika Romero: I just go from day to day doing what I got it. You
Erika Romero: To the best of my ability in there. But there's something that's always been missing it. I don't know what it is. I don't know where to find it. I just
Erika Romero: Accept the fact that, you know, I am who I am and I do what I do and
Erika Romero: And that's who I am, you know, but there's always been something missing girls. I just don't know what it is.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I imagine that if you're even having
Dominique Pozo: That the sensation that something's missing eventually it's going to become clear and I have you, have you ever done any journaling. Has that been a practice of yours ever
Dominique Pozo: Oh, well, I'm going to invite you to get a journal. If you don't already have one.
Dominique Pozo: And make it your very special journal that you get up in the mornings and you just take five minutes. If you can find that time and it sounds like it's a lot, having
Dominique Pozo: YOUR GRANDDAUGHTER with you. But if you can find time to just devote five minutes. It's not a long time, but maybe set your timer and just right just free right whatever comes through, just thinking made the art.
Dominique Pozo: Some something really powerful happened with the freedom you know that image of those wings and that freedom, it really it touched something deeply. So I really trust that through just free writing something's going to start to come through.
Erika Romero: Okay, I will do that.
Erika Romero: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And I think that image is really powerful. You know that warmth and the sweetness and the strength and the freedom. These are really, those are powerful symbols, you know, to keep if you can maybe put it in a special place that you can keep
Dominique Pozo: Working at it. I think that will help stimulate something in YouTube.
Erika Romero: Okay. Yeah, well,
Dominique Pozo: Okay, do you want
Dominique Pozo: Shall we just plan on the same time next week. Should we keep this as your time. Yes, sure.
Erika Romero: Yeah, that'll be fine.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so I'm going to put you on the calendar for for this time next week.
Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Are you
Dominique Pozo: Are you still there.
Erika Romero: Yeah, I'm here.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, we can actually today was was a bit wonky because I have a few other
Dominique Pozo: Sessions and clients. But if you want to. If you're willing to do five o'clock, and if that works for you. That would actually be a little better for my schedule will not work for you next
Erika Romero: Five o'clock. Yeah, okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, great. All right. Erica take good care of yourself.
Dominique Pozo: Me Ok
Erika Romero: I will, I will see you next week. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Sounds good. Bye bye.
Erika Romero: Bye bye.